🚀 HOW TO RUN COGNIPLAN (PRODUCTIVITY TRACKER)
Location: D:\Projects\Tracker
OPTION 1: THE EASY WAY (AUTOMATIC)
Double-click the START_APP.bat file in the root folder.
This script is configured to:

Activate the Python Virtual Environment (.venv).

Start the FastAPI backend server.

Launch your browser automatically to http://127.0.0.1:8000.

OPTION 2: THE MANUAL WAY (VS CODE / POWERSHELL)
If you prefer running it manually to see the logs and debug, follow these steps:

Open Terminal in the Tracker folder.

Activate the Environment:

PowerShell
.\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
Enter the Backend Directory:

PowerShell
cd backend
Start the Server:

PowerShell
uvicorn main:app --reload
View the App: Open your browser and go to http://127.0.0.1:8000.

📂 IMPORTANT: FOLDER STRUCTURE
To ensure the app runs correctly, keep the files organized as follows:

/backend: Contains main.py, models.py, and your .env (connected to Supabase).

/docs: Contains your frontend (index.html, style.css, app.js).

Note: We use the docs folder instead of frontend so the app works both locally and on GitHub Pages.

☁️ DATABASE STATUS
Provider: Supabase (PostgreSQL)

Connection: Managed via the DATABASE_URL in your backend/.env.

Auto-Sync: Tables are automatically checked/created every time the backend starts.

🛠️ TROUBLESHOOTING
"ModuleNotFoundError": If you see a missing module (like psycopg2), run pip install -r backend/requirements.txt.

"Port 8000 in use": If the server won't start, close any other Python windows or run uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8001.

🌍 DEPLOYMENT WORKFLOW (LOCAL TO RENDER)
This project uses a split local/production cycle to make testing fast and deployment seamless.

1. Pushing to Production (Render)
To make your changes live for the world, you just:
- Open docs/app.js.
- Comment out the localhost URL.
- Uncomment the onrender.com URL.
- Save the file.
- Run your Git commands:
  git add .
  git commit -m "update frontend endpoints"
  git push origin main

2. The Shared Database Magic
The habit you add locally WILL be there when you open the Render link!
This is the beauty of cloud databases. Your local laptop (using the .env file) and your Render server (using the Render dashboard variables) are both pointing to the exact same Supabase database in the cloud.
The data isn't saved on your laptop, and it isn't saved on Render. It's saved in Supabase. So, no matter where you access the backend from—your local environment or the live website—you are looking at the exact same data.

3. Switching Back to Local Development
Whenever you want to build a new feature or test a change tomorrow, next week, or next month, you just:
- Swap the comments back so app.js uses the localhost URL.
- Open your terminal and navigate to the backend folder. Run `uvicorn main:app --reload`.
- Open index.html with Live Server.
- Start coding!

You have successfully set up a professional, industry-standard development cycle. You can now build, test, and deploy with complete confidence!

Stop the server: Go to your terminal and press CTRL + C to stop FastAPI.

Delete the database: Go to your VS Code file explorer on the left side, right-click the productivity.db file, and hit Delete. (Don't worry, your SQLAlchemy code will automatically rebuild the empty tables the next time it runs).

Run the seed script: In your terminal, make sure you are in the main Tracker folder (not inside the backend folder, because your code says from backend.database...), and run this exact command:

Bash
python -m backend.seed
The Result: The terminal will print: ✅ Seeded 5 habits and 5 todos successfully.

Start the server again: Run your uvicorn command, refresh your browser, and the frontend will instantly have 30 days of data.